docs/README.md, before:

# EXSM 3943 - C# Project | Restaurant Manager

A full-stack web application for the **Harvest & Hearth** restaurant, allowing customers to create an account to order food for dine-in, pickup, or delivery. The website also includes a web portal for the kitchen staff to manage incoming customer orders.

Developed as part of the **EXSM 3943** C# project at the University of Alberta.

Live Site: [https://harvestandhearth.webthesite.com/](https://harvestandhearth.webthesite.com/)

## Features

### For Customers:

- Browse menu items with categories and descriptions
- Create an account and log in to order or make a reservation
- Add items to a shopping cart
- Choose between dine-in, pickup, or delivery
- Submit and pay for orders

### For Kitchen Staff:

- Access kitchen portal to view order queue
- See order details, status, and timestamps
- Update order progress (e.g., "In Progress", "Ready", "Delivered")

## Usage

- Users can select the "Menu" Navigation Tab to browse the menu. Menu items can be viewed by category and filtered by dietary preference.
- Selecting the "Order" or "Book Table" Navigation Tabs before logging in will redirect the user to the login page. Here they can either log in to an existing account or create a new account using an email and a phone number.
- Once logged in, the user will have access to the account page where the they can view and edit their profile.
- Users can select the "Order" Navigation Tab to add items to their cart and place an order. Users can select the "Checkout" option once they have completed thier order. This will take them to the Checkout page where they can confirm their order and view their receipt.
- Users can select the "Book Table" Navigation Tab to enter the information required to reserve a table. Selecting the "Book Now" button will redirect the user to the Reservation confirmation page.

## Tech Stack

- **ASP.NET Core MVC** (.NET 8)
- **C#** backend logic
- **Entity Framework Core** for data access
- **SQLite Server** (for database development)
- **Razor Pages** for UI rendering
- **Bootstrap/CSS** (additional styling)
- **Nginx web server** (site deployment)

## Project Setup

### Prerequisites

- Install the .NET 8 SDK at [https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- Install the Entity Framework CLI:

```bash
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
```

### Steps

- Clone repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Web-Development-UAlberta/exsm-3951-exsm-3943-spring-2025-python-c-project-team-restaurant-c.git
```

- Navigate to repository:

```bash
cd exsm-3951-exsm-3943-spring-2025-python-c-project-team-restaurant-c
```

- Apply the latest Entity Framework Core migrations:

```bash
dotnet ef database update --project src/RestaurantManager/RestaurantManager.csproj
```

- Run application:

```bash
dotnet run --project src/RestaurantManager/RestaurantManager.csproj
```

---

## Contributors:

- [Arlyssa](https://github.com/Arlyssa)
- [Alex](https://github.com/Pewpy)
- [Josh](https://github.com/jmantei)

Commit message:

Add Stripe setup to README;

docs/README.md, after:

# EXSM 3943 - C# Project | Restaurant Manager

A full-stack web application for the **Harvest & Hearth** restaurant, allowing customers to create an account to order food for dine-in, pickup, or delivery. The website also includes a web portal for the kitchen staff to manage incoming customer orders.

Developed as part of the **EXSM 3943** C# project at the University of Alberta.

Live Site: [https://harvestandhearth.webthesite.com/](https://harvestandhearth.webthesite.com/)

## Features

### For Customers:

- Browse menu items with categories and descriptions
- Create an account and log in to order or make a reservation
- Add items to a shopping cart
- Choose between dine-in, pickup, or delivery
- Submit and pay for orders

### For Kitchen Staff:

- Access kitchen portal to view order queue
- See order details, status, and timestamps
- Update order progress (e.g., "In Progress", "Ready", "Delivered")

## Usage

- Users can select the "Menu" Navigation Tab to browse the menu. Menu items can be viewed by category and filtered by dietary preference.
- Selecting the "Order" or "Book Table" Navigation Tabs before logging in will redirect the user to the login page. Here they can either log in to an existing account or create a new account using an email and a phone number.
- Once logged in, the user will have access to the account page where the they can view and edit their profile.
- Users can select the "Order" Navigation Tab to add items to their cart and place an order. Users can select the "Checkout" option once they have completed thier order. This will take them to the Checkout page where they can confirm their order and view their receipt.
- Users can select the "Book Table" Navigation Tab to enter the information required to reserve a table. Selecting the "Book Now" button will redirect the user to the Reservation confirmation page.

## Tech Stack

- **ASP.NET Core MVC** (.NET 8)
- **C#** backend logic
- **Entity Framework Core** for data access
- **SQLite Server** (for database development)
- **Razor Pages** for UI rendering
- **Bootstrap/CSS** (additional styling)
- **Nginx web server** (site deployment)

## Project Setup

### Prerequisites

- Get your Stripe Secret Key:
  - Create an account with [Stripe](https://dashboard.stripe.com/login)
  - Click Sandboxes within the Dashboard account picker to create and access your sandbox. This is a test environment to simulate payments using Stripe.
  - Copy your Secret key under the API Keys Tab inside the Developers Page.

- Install the .NET 8 SDK at [https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- Install the Entity Framework CLI:

```bash
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-ef
```

### Steps

- Clone repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:Web-Development-UAlberta/exsm-3951-exsm-3943-spring-2025-python-c-project-team-restaurant-c.git
```

- Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd exsm-3951-exsm-3943-spring-2025-python-c-project-team-restaurant-c/src/RestaurantManager
```

- Create a .env file in the project directory with your copied Stripe Secret Key:

```bash
echo STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=copy_your_secret_key_here > .env
```

Replace copy_your_secret_key_here with the secret API key from your Stripe account.

- Apply the latest Entity Framework Core migrations:

```bash
dotnet ef database update
```

- Run application:

```bash
dotnet run
```

---

## Contributors:

- [Arlyssa](https://github.com/Arlyssa)
- [Alex](https://github.com/Pewpy)
- [Josh](https://github.com/jmantei)
