docs/SCOPE.md, before:

# Project Scope Document

## 1.0 Project Description
Converting the restaurant’s website to allow customers to engage with the restaurant through order processing, bookings, loyalty programs, and online menus. Logistical applications will also be created for the kitchen staff.

---

## 2.0 Project Objective
Create a web portal which allows customers to:
- Reserve specific tables inside the restaurant
- Order food for dine-in, pickup, or delivery
- Create customer accounts for order history and loyalty programs

All transactions will be handled through the web portal with support for card payments and mobile wallets. Backend operations will enable the restaurant to track orders and manage inventory.

---

## 3.0 Description of Work

### 3.1 Project Planning Facilitation
- Define project objectives  
- Identify stakeholders, timelines, or other constraints  
- Hold weekly progress meetings with the development team and stakeholders  
- Developers to perform detailed review of information and documentation  

**Includes:**
- Technical Scope of Work  
- Project Work Schedule  
- Quality Assurance Test Plans  
- GUI Design Reviews  

---

### 3.2 Deliverables

#### **Table Reservation GUI**
- 50x50 grid floor plan  
- Interactable table selection  
- Real-time updates to prevent double bookings  

#### **Online Ordering**
- Registered users may pre-order for dine-in, takeout, or delivery  
- Items dynamically updated based on availability  
- Delivery fees calculated based on proximity to the restaurant  

#### **Online Menus**
- Accessible to both registered and non-registered users  
- Menu dynamically updates based on item availability  

#### **Loyalty Program**
- Registered users earn rewards based on spending  
- Discounts available for returning customers  
- User preferences (payment info, address, favorite dishes, etc.) will be stored  

#### **Order Checkout**
- Accepts all payment types (cards, mobile wallets, etc.)  
- Detailed receipt of items and price totals  
- Additional delivery information included (expected delivery time, address, etc.)  

#### **Kitchen Portal**
- Kitchen staff notified when new orders are placed  
- Orders include order type (pre-order, ASAP, or delivery)  
- Ingredient inventory tracked based on orders  

---

## 5.0 Timeline

| Week | Tasks |
|------|-------|
| **Week 1** | Documentation Reviewed |
| **Week 2** | Documentation Finalized |
| **Week 3** | Table Reservation GUI / Online Menus |
| **Week 4** | Ordering Systems / Payment Processing |
| **Week 5** | First Release Candidate / Kitchen Portal |
| **Week 6** | Final Release |

---

Commit message:

Add out of scope section to Scope document

docs/SCOPE.md, after:

# Project Scope Document

## 1.0 Project Description
Converting the restaurant’s website to allow customers to engage with the restaurant through order processing, bookings, loyalty programs, and online menus. Logistical applications will also be created for the kitchen staff.

---

## 2.0 Project Objective
Create a web portal which allows customers to:
- Reserve specific tables inside the restaurant
- Order food for dine-in, pickup, or delivery
- Create customer accounts for order history and loyalty programs

All transactions will be handled through the web portal with support for card payments and mobile wallets. Backend operations will enable the restaurant to track orders and manage inventory.

---

## 3.0 Description of Work

### 3.1 Project Planning Facilitation
- Define project objectives  
- Identify stakeholders, timelines, or other constraints  
- Hold weekly progress meetings with the development team and stakeholders  
- Developers to perform detailed review of information and documentation  

**Includes:**
- Technical Scope of Work  
- Project Work Schedule  
- Quality Assurance Test Plans  
- GUI Design Reviews  

---

### 3.2 Deliverables

#### **Online Ordering**
- Registered users may pre-order for dine-in, takeout, or delivery  

#### **Online Menus**
- Accessible to both registered and non-registered users  

#### **Loyalty Program**
- Registered users earn rewards based on spending  
- User preferences (payment info, address, dietary notes, favorite dishes, etc.) will be stored  

#### **Order Checkout**
- Accepts card payment type
- Detailed receipt of items and price totals
- Specific notes to orders   
- Additional delivery information included (address, etc.)  

#### **Kitchen Portal**
- Kitchen staff notified when new orders are placed  
- Orders include order type (pre-order, ASAP, or delivery)  

---

## 4.0 Out of Scope
- Real-time update to prevent double booking
- Items dynamically updated based on availability
- Delivery Fees calculated based on proximity
- Discounts for returning customers
- Ingredient inventory tracked based on orders
- Table Reservation GUI

## 5.0 Timeline

| Week | Tasks |
|------|-------|
| **Week 1** | Documentation Reviewed |
| **Week 2** | Documentation Finalized |
| **Week 3** | Table Reservation GUI / Online Menus |
| **Week 4** | Ordering Systems / Payment Processing |
| **Week 5** | First Release Candidate / Kitchen Portal |
| **Week 6** | Final Release |

---
